About DIYWealth
Please read this before you go any further.
So you’ve decided to invest in the stock market?
Good for you, it’s a fine idea. Over the last 10 years the S&P 500 (the most valuable 500 stocks on American exchanges) have gone up an average of X% per year. That’s a nice return. If you’ve got some money to invest and you’re prepared to leave it in the market for at least 5 years, then the stock market could be the place for you.
How can DIYWealth help you?
We’re guessing that if you’re here then this is either your first venture into the stock market, or you’ve only dabbled a bit. We understand how daunting it can be. Let us paint a picture for you. You’ve got a hunch, heard a tip, maybe read a favourable news report about a company and you’ve decided to invest. So you pour over the balance sheet, compare it to its competitors, and convince yourself it’s a good pick. That’s fine, it’s a perfectly valid investment strategy, it’s how a lot of the pros operate. But you’d better do that at least 10 times so you’re not overexposed to that one stock. That’s a lot of work. And now you’ve bought your portfolio what do you do next? When’s the right time to sell? Is there a better prospect out there? And what happens if the price goes down? Do you stick it out our cut your losses? Investing is stressful, right? That’s what we think, anyway, and we usually make our worst decisions when we’re stressed out.
That’s where DIYWealth could help you. Follow our investment stategy and you’ll have a clear set of rules. We’ll tell you how our strategy works in a bit, but in short it’ll tell you what companies to buy and when to sell them. That takes the emotion out of the equation.
What are the benefits of using DIYWealth?
Simplistically, equity funds fall into two categories. There are index trackers which will try to match the performance of a particular index, for example the S&P 500. Index trackers have the benefit of having low fees, so less of your returns will go to the money managers, but by their nature won’t beat the market. Managed equity funds will try to beat the market. A team of analysts will spend their days hunting down what they think are the best stock picks and trying to beat the market, but they will expect to be paid for that so they’re going to tack a cut of your returns. The reality is that most fund managers don’t beat the market anyway!
Follow the DIYWealth strategy and you have a chance to beat the market (no guarantees!) but better than that your returns are yours!
How does DIYWealth work?
DIYWealth follows a very simple strategy. It’s easy to understand, makes logical sense, and that’s what gives us confidence in it.
We use two simple metrics, one to tell us that the stock price is currently good value, and another to tell us that the company has good profitability. We use these two metrics to rank the stocks and pick the ones that come out on top.
For value we use skock’s “price to earnings” (P/E) ratio. The lower the P/E ratio, the lower the stock price compared to the company’s earnings.
For profitability we use the companies’ “return on equity” (ROE) value. ROE is a ratio of a company’s net income to its shareholder equity. Shareholder equity is another way of say net assets, or assets minus debt. The higher the net income compared to shareholder equity, the more profitable the company is.
All we do is divide P/E by ROE for each company and rank the values by lowest to highest. We cut out any company’s that aren’t big enough (below a market capitalization threshold) and pick the highest ranked stocks. This is our way of following the principles of “value investing” i.e. choosing stocks we believe the market hasn’t recognised the value of.
Buy 30-50 stocks from the list, 20 at a minimum and then aim to get up to the 30. Hold those stocks for two years to allow their value to be appreciated by the market. Any stocks that have dropped off the list you should sell and replace with the highest ranked new stock. If your stock is still on the list then keep it and reassess in a year’s time.
Simple, right? There are no secrets to this investment technique, just a few simple ideas that you can use to invest with confidence. Please note though that there is no perfect metric for future stock performance, if there was everyone would do it. Every company is different, and these metrics have their flaws, that’s why you should hold many stocks to diversify your portfolio.
Who shouldn’t use DIYWealth?
Do not invest in the stock market if you need access to your money within a 5 year time frame. Period! The market can go down as well as up and we make no guarantees about your returns. We believe that investing in the stock market is a lifetime pursuit, and certainly not for making a quick buck.
The strategy we are proposing does not do a detailed analysis of any of the stock picks. That’s an added element of risk, so we recommend that you hold many stocks to diversify your portfolio. That’s why we recommend holding 20 stocks as a minimum. You will have to pay a transaction fee for each stock you buy, and to buy enough to reduce the percentage spent on transaction fees can be a significant initial investment. If you only have a little to invest then we think you’d be better off investing in a fund that will spread the risk for you. Come back to us when you’ve put enough away to do it for yourself. If you can’t do a full 20 stocks and you really want to use our list of stocks then do as many as you can and hold them longer than we recommend in the strategy to reduce the amount spent per year on transaction fees. Be sure to pick the highest market capitalization stocks which tend to be less risky.
Don’t use this strategy if you aren’t prepared to follow the rules. Stock prices fluctuate and if you sell every time the price goes down that’s a recipe for losing money. You will need to be able to hold your nerve.
If you go ahead with our strategy you do so at your own risk. If it’s not for you we won’t be offended. A low fees index tracker fund may be more suitable.
